Sourcegraph 3.11 blogpost (#472)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/announcing-sourcegraph-3.11.md

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.11: NPM credentials campaign, structural search, language statistics, and removed management console"
author: Christina Forney
publishDate: 2019-12-20T10:00-07:00
tags: [blog]
slug: sourcegraph-3.11
heroImage: https://about.sourcegraph.com/sourcegraph-mark.png
published: true
---

Sourcegraph is the standard developer platform for code search and navigation at many of the largest and most advanced technology companies. With Sourcegraph, every company has access to the same kind of tools that Google and Facebook developers use every day.

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

> [**🤖 Find and remove leaked NPM credentials**](#find-and-remove-leaked-npm-credentials)<br />

Author: Yep, that makes sense, I'll reorder.

    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/380662673?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/380662673" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>

Sourcegraph 3.11 introduces structural search, a code aware search syntax that can identify structural patterns in code. This enables advanced code search to specifically match patterns inside code structures such as function parameters and loop bodies.

It can be awkward or difficult to match code blocks or nested expressions with regexp. To meet this challenge we’ve introduced a new and easier way to search code that operates more closely on the parse tree of the input using [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/) for structural matching.

Here is a search query that [matches all the arguments in `fmt.Sprintf` calls](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo%3A%5Egithub%5C.com%2Fsourcegraph%2Fsourcegraph%24++%27fmt.Sprintf%28%3A%5Bargs%5D%29%27+count%3A100&patternType=structural) in the Sourcegraph code base:

```text

> patterntype:structural “fmt.Sprintf(:[args])”

Reviewer: I don't think this is a good example. For interactive searching, this is not really better than just searching for `fmt.Sprintf(`. We should use an example that shows off the benefits of structural search. For example:

- https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+fmt.Sprintf%28%22:%5Bstr%5D%22%29&patternType=structural - matches unnecessary usage of `fmt.Sprintf`
- https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+%22http.Client%7B:%5Ba%5D+Transport:+:%5Bb%5D+:%5Bc%5D%7D%22+count:1000&patternType=structural all places where we make a http.Client with a Transport (spans multiple lines and can be in any order, so structural search shines here)
- https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+%22make%28:%5Bx%5D%2C+0%29%22+count:1000&patternType=structural places where we could have just done `x := []type{}` (fewer chars, equivalent, see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29164375/correct-way-to-initialize-empty-slice)
- https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+%22func%28:%5B%5Bvarname%5D%5D+:%5Btypes%5D%29+%7B%7D%22+count:1000&patternType=structural places where we could remove the var names in the param list (eg `func(w http.ResponseWriter) {}` -> `func(http.ResponseWriter) {}`)

Also, let's resolve https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/7330 before we include this, or mention limitations/known issues (that tripped me up).

cc @rvantonder

Reviewer 2: #7330: this is expected behavior (the repo searched is unindexed). That limitation is mentioned in the [user docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/search/structural#current-functionality-and-restrictions), but making this obvious could be improved. Will track updates/solutions in that issue.

Re example: in the docs I start off with a super simple example just to introduce syntax. We don't have as much space in the blog post, so it can cut to the chase as far as the example goes.

Author: I updated with new examples and added limitations. Let me know what you think!

Reviewer 2: I'll look into adding an alert message unindexed search soon on sourcegraph.com so that it isn't a confusing/surprising behavior.

[**📊 Comprehensive overhaul of instance health monitoring and dashboards**](#high-level-health-monitoring)<br />

[**⚙️ Global settings now configurable via local file**](#global-settings-now-configurable-via-local-file)<br />

[**🤖 Find and remove leaked NPM credentials**](#find-and-remove-leaked-npm-credentials)<br />

[**🔎 Search query language statistics**](#search-query-language-statistics)<br />

[**🗞 In other news**](#in-other-news)<br />
How Lyft used Sourcegraph during its monolith to microservice decomposition and Sourcegraph proudly sponsoring GitLab Commit.

[**📝 Changelog**](#changelog)<br />
Every detail that changed in this release.

[**🎖️ Thank you**](#thank-you)<br />
Sourcegraph couldn't be what it is without the community.

</div>

**Deploy or upgrade:** [Local](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/#quickstart-guide) | [AWS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-aws) | [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/sourcegraph?action=deploy&refcode=48dfb3ccb51c) | [Kubernetes cluster](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph)

> ## Introducing code aware structural search

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Introducing code-aware structural search
```

The hyphen got left behind

It can be awkward or difficult to match code blocks or nested expressions with regexp. To meet this challenge we’ve introduced a new and easier way to search code that operates more closely on the parse tree of the input using [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/) for structural matching.

For example, this can be used to [find all the places that `fmt.Sprintf` are unnecessary](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+%27fmt.Sprintf%28%22:%5Bstr%5D%22%29%27&patternType=structural):

```text
patterntype:structural 'fmt.Sprintf(":[str]")'
```

Or to [identify all the places an `http.Client` is created with a `Transport`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+%22http.Client%7B:%5Ba%5D+Transport:+:%5Bb%5D+:%5Bc%5D%7D%22+count:1000&patternType=structural):

```text
patterntype:structural "http.Client{:[a] Transport: :[b] :[c]}"
```

In these examples, the `:[str]` part is a hole with a descriptive name `str` that matches code. The important part is that these patterns understand that the structural pieces (e.g. parentheses and braces) are balanced.

Known limitations:

> - Only indexed repositories will show results for structural search. On [Sourcegraph](https://sourcegraph.com/search), we index roughly the top 13,000 repositories by GitHub stars.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Only indexed repositories will show results for structural search. On [Sourcegraph](https://sourcegraph.com/search), we index approximately 10,000 of the most popular GitHub repositories.
```

Reviewer 2: Ref: https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C0W2E592M/p1574452433223800?thread_ts=1574451809.220400&cid=C0W2E592M

Reviewer 2: I'll update the docs page to reflect this similarly in a follow up.

Sourcegraph 3.11 introduces [structural search](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/search/structural), a code-aware search syntax that can identify structural patterns in code. This enables advanced code search to specifically match patterns inside code structures such as function parameters and loop bodies.

It can be awkward or difficult to match code blocks or nested expressions with regexp. To meet this challenge we’ve introduced a new and easier way to search code that operates more closely on the parse tree of the input using [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/) for structural matching.

For example, this can be used to [find all the places that `fmt.Sprintf` are unnecessary](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+%27fmt.Sprintf%28%22:%5Bstr%5D%22%29%27&patternType=structural):

```text
patterntype:structural 'fmt.Sprintf(":[str]")'
```

Or to [identify all the places an `http.Client` is created with a `Transport`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+%22http.Client%7B:%5Ba%5D+Transport:+:%5Bb%5D+:%5Bc%5D%7D%22+count:1000&patternType=structural):

```text
patterntype:structural "http.Client{:[a] Transport: :[b] :[c]}"
```

> In these examples, the `:[str]` part is a hole with a descriptive name `str` that matches code. The important part is that this pattern understands that the structual pieces (e.g. parentheses, braces) are balanced.

Reviewer 2: The above example, and then talking about `str` and explaining things seems a bit unordered. 

> this pattern

Which pattern does this refer to? In the docs this is a specific pattern. In these examples there are two. Maybe `these` patterns.

Known limitations:

> - Only indexed repositories will show results for structural search. On sourcegraph.com, we index roughly the top 13,000 repositories by GitHub stars.

Reviewer 2: I think this fine. It'd be a good idea to make `sourcegraph.com` part the URL `https://sourcegraph.com/search` (esp. with the `/search` at the end, given that whole thing about people having trouble finding the search page.)
